monkees website
Planning:
For the planning phase of my website, i began to look at other artists and band websites, to get a idea of types of webpages that are included into a band website. With the knowledge of the types of webpages that are usually included in this type of website, i thought about how i could use the assest given to me to fit in with the pages included in a band website. The webapages i decided to include are obviously a home page, a about page, a photos page, a music page and a get in touch page because in the brief the band to advise the fact that they are available for special events. Next i used balsamiq to create wireframes for each of my webpages.
After this i thought about the looks of the website completing research on the 1960s colours, styles, background pictures, fonts and using this research to create a mood board. Also from my research on other websites i came to the conclusion that most artist/band websites look very modern and use more black and grey colours, which i thought wouldnt work or look right for a 1960s band website so i decided to create a more simple colourful website to suit the theme of a 1960s band. In my research for a suitable font i decided to use lobster as it look close to 1960s font with the flicks on the end of some of letters and at same time it means you can read the writing.
Technologies Used:
The next step was to gather all my assets such as the photos, videos, audio and save them in a folder. After this i made the project on cloud 9, creating the suitable files, naming correctly and inserting the correct file in the right folders. Also uploading my assets to the project for future use.
The first page i made obviosuly was my home page i included the monkees logo at the top, following this is the nav bar with the name of the other pages. Next i decided to use one of assets provided to me as the main element for the home page and this was the video of the monkees singing one of their hits. Below this i a decription on the band and information on the fact that they can play at events which is one of the aims of this website. At the footer of the page are small facebook, twitter and youtube icons because as explained in the brief the monkees want to be start a social media present and this will help and its allow make the webpage flow better. For the css at this point i centered the page therefore i could add a 1960s background image behind the centered elements to help show that this a 1960s band. I added colour to the text i used a colour which was from my colour plalette, i also used the lobster font here.
For the other four pages i added the files for each page named them and put them under the correct folder. I next copyed and pasted the code from the home page to the other four files and removed the main content which was on the home page so then it was ready for the main content for that page.
The second page was the about page which gives details on each band member, this wasnt a requirement but i thought it was a relevant page to add as it gives the user knowledge on the band members which they may not know. On this page includes a picture of the band member followed by personal details.
The third page was the music page, this was a required page by the customer as they want fans to able to find their old content. Therefore i added audio players for each song then followed by the name of the song, its release date and the song cover so it doesnt look bland.
The fourth page is a photos page this page includes all their album cover work, this page also covers the requirment that the customer want to provide access to all their content from the past to their fans.
The final page is a contact page so a potential customer can get in the contact with the band to arrange an event, it doesnt state they wanted this page but it makes sense as they want to advestise the fact that they can play at events, so accompanying a contact page with this infomrtion means they can get the most out of this idea, i did this by adding a button to the homepage where it states they can play at events to give the user quick access to this page.
Once the main content was coded in i began to refine the page and give more life to it. I did this by adding curves to elements such as the page borders, button, the nav bar and others by doing this it gave the website more of a 1960s feel and made it look more pleasant. I also spaced elements out if this was either spacing between the elements or the sides of the main page therefore the page didn't look crammed.
Testing:
